well let's take you now to the ha where
the international court of justice is on
the fifth day of hearings into Israel's
occupation of Palestinian territories
the first representative from the
British delegation you see her there
Sally langrish she's the legal advisor
and director general of legal at the
foreign Commonwealth and development
office is beginning her presentation
let's listen in in participating in
these proceedings the United Kingdom
underlines its respect and continued
support for the
court our position on the Israeli pal
Palestinian dispute is long
established we firmly believe that a
negotiated two-state solution is the
only way to end Israel's occupation to
deliver Palestinian
self-determination and to preserve
Israel's identity and security that
belief is founded on the relevant
Security Council resolutions and the
party's existing
agreements recent events only reinforce
the importance and urgency of
implementing in the existing
framework on the 7th of October Israel
suffered the worst terrorist attack in
its history hamas's terrorist attacks
and the ensuing conflict in Gaza have
resulted in tragic and largescale loss
of life and injury to
civilians Palestinians now face A
desperate humanitarian crisis in
Gaza the United Kingdom wants to see an
immediate suspension of the fighting in
Gaza and then progress towards a
sustainable and permanent
ceasefire it is essential to ensure
irreversible momentum towards a
two-state solution guaranteeing security
Justice and peace for both Palestinians
and
Israelis the United Kingdom has only
addressed matters of propriety in its
written statement rather than the merits
of the request it takes the same
approach in these oral
submissions in doing so so the United
Kingdom should not be taken to accept
any factual allegation or legal
proposition Advanced by other
participants over the course of this
week we have heard certain
characterizations of Israel's actions
which we don't accept we have also heard
characterizations of our own conduct and
the motivation for it which we
emphatically
reject we are confident that the court
will find analogies with unrelated cases
to be enti unhelpful what matters is the
case before it
today the United Kingdom confines its
submissions to relevant matters of legal
principle firmly founded on the Court's
own jurist
Prudence we submit that the terms of the
request do not allow the court to give
an opinion in a manner consistent with
its judicial
functions the United Kingdom will focus
today on three key points concerning
propriety which will be developed by
professor
sari they are
first the impact of the
non-circumvention principle in this
case second the unsuitability of the
fact finding exercise that the court
would have to conduct to answer the
request as presently
framed third the effect of Security
Council resolutions 242 and
338 each of these points independently
provides a cogent reason for declining
to answer the request the court will
have have will have observed that our
third reason has occupied a particularly
prominent place in the participants oral
submissions should the court be minded
to issue an opinion then the United
Kingdom would respectfully urge it to
reformulate the questions to concentrate
on the security Council
framework in this scenario the court
should focus on assisting the general
assembly in supporting urgent progress
towards a negotiated solution I will
address this point in concluding the
United Kingdom submissions later